If you want to turn with me to the book of Song of Songs, chapter 4, we are doing this
series called Bible Shorts, and we are going through shorter books of the Bible that maybe
get overlooked, maybe they're just one chapter or something, and just pulling out what God
might be saying to us.
If you know your Bible, Song of Songs is not the shortest or even next on the short list
of shortest books of the Bible.
But for some reason, when we map this out, and myself and Pastor Pete were looking at the preaching schedule,
and we're like, hey, we have these couple weeks, what should we do?
The next shortest one is this book, but I mean, we kind of cover it in this kind of way.
And I'm like, hey, you know what? I'm finishing seminary.
My recent class, we just talked about Song of Songs. Why don't we cover that?
And I stand before you here this morning, not regretting that decision at all, Song of Songs.
But it is a very overlooked book in the Bible
Especially in, I think, a lot of circles
In terms of their preaching schedules
Maybe not talked about, discussed
It is a love poem
I'm going to do some introduction
Some kind of just even maybe asking where we are
As we approach this book
It is a love poem
It is eight chapters of love poetry
Between a man and a woman
Just by word of preface
As it talks about relationships and marriage and sex
this is not going to be a sex or relationship seminar, mostly because there is, well, first of
all, it's a sermon, but secondly, there is a wide range of ages and people in the room, and so if
you are a parent, and you heard the book, and you're immediately cringing, and like, my kid is
here, I know what's in the Song of Songs, he better not, don't worry, I'm not, it can get very
graphic and explicit. I'm not going to touch those. Just, just, just, I don't want those
emails afterwards. I don't want, you know, actually, if you want to email anyone, you can email
PeteDollum at hmcc.net. I am going to talk about concepts like sex, like intimacy, like passion,
but I'm not going to cover some of the more graphic details of the book, just again, given
the wide range of people that are here today and listening to the Word. But it's all, it's a tough
book to study. I love the Bible in that the main things, the biggest things of the Bible are super
clear. When Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, he means he is the way, the truth,
and the life. There is no one who can go to the Father except through him. That's clear, that's
explicit, that's easy to understand. There are other parts of the Bible that might be a little
bit harder to understand. Not that they are any less valuable or true, but they are a little bit
harder to understand. And so for some of us, maybe we've had Bible reading plans. Maybe we've read
through the Bible, and we come across this book, and we're like, I don't know what to do with this.
When I was young, like younger than the age of 10, our church would go through a Bible reading plan
and say, hey, everyone every age should read the whole Bible this year. And my dad, being the pastor,
he goes to me and my brother at home, and he says, guys, skip songs. I don't know if he didn't want
to have that conversation with us yet. He had it later, but he's like, no, just read the rest of
the Bible, just not this. When I hit youth group, when I hit middle school, high school age, I
remember my teachers or my leaders, they would say things like, hey, when you read Song of Songs,
just focus on this one verse. The phrase is mentioned a couple times. Do not stir up or
awaken love until it pleases. It's mentioned a couple times in the song. And they would say
things like, hey, this verse means don't have sex before marriage. That's the only thing you should
take away from the Song of Songs. Actually, there was another thing. They said, don't, don't, if you
have a crush on it, like, don't feed that crush. Like, don't obsess over her too much. You know,
I'm like, I did that anyways. Anyways, that's a whole other thing. But if for some of us,
we're prone to maybe skip over or even try to oversimplify this book, I think we miss out on
a truth that is expressed
in 2 Timothy. All Scripture, everyone say
all. All Scripture
is breathed out by God and profitable
for teaching, for reproof, for correction
and for training in righteousness.
And so for us, as we
dig into this book, I hope we can
hold to this truth, even though it
might be a little bit difficult to
hammer out or to work out,
but to believe that actually all of the Scripture,
all of the Bible is beneficial for
us to learn about God, to learn about
His character, His nature,
maybe to learn something about us, how we ought to live, something like that.
Because I think another tendency that I've seen for some people as they read the Song of Songs or Song of Solomon
is, oh, okay, it's a love poem, but it's really this metaphorical or allegorical thing.
And so people jump to, oh, this obviously means something like Jesus loves his church, which he does, amen?
Jesus loves his church.
Look at the person next to him.
Jesus loves you.
Amen.
That's a wonderful truth we can hold to.
But are we missing something if we jump to that?
There's a Jewish rabbi who wrote this.
Song of songs is surely a song of love, but not of one's human love for another.
And so for him, he...
Brokenness in the sexual fidelity, brokenness in these sexual relationships,
brokenness in ideals and ideal relationships of people in our lives
that should have been these representatives to us.
saying this is what a loving relationship should look like
and those being broken.
Even though God presents an ideal in this song,
he knows, maybe better than any of us,
just how messed up things can get.
The Christ who forgives us,
the Christ who has died for us,
is also the Christ who has healing in his hands.
And though it may take time,
though it may take a lot of tears,
can you bring areas of brokenness to God?
And finally, to hope in the transcendence.
again it's not that
at least
in the song at least it's not that sex
is our way to experience God
it's not our way to experience the transcendence
that comes from God
but as it reveals a need
and a longing in all of us
to believe in faith that there
is a transcendent future waiting
for those of us in Christ
one of the things I love
as the apostle John is writing
the vision that he has in the book of Revelation
He describes all sorts of sites.
He describes the throne.
He describes angels.
He describes the new heavens and the new earth.
And I love that there is so much described there,
but not only good things that are described,
but something that's missing that's so valuable.
There is no more temple in the new heaven and new earth.
There is no limit to God's presence in the new heaven and new earth.
There is no limit to where he is and how he relates with his people.
There's no sin to get in the way.
There's no shame to cause us to be in hiding.
There is just perfect relationship with the God who has created and sacrificed for us.
I can't fully describe how transcendent those moments will be in heaven.
I can't fully describe in words.
I can't fully describe even in volume and tone of my voice.
Just how wonderful and glorious it will be.
You know me, I can get loud.
But the transcendence that is waiting for us in God, in Christ,
can that give hope for all of us,
no matter what we experience in this lifetime.
Can you ask us to stand this morning as we respond to the word?